DOCS-1083: MinIO Server Release RELEASE.2023-12-02T10-51-33Z (#1097)
minio/docs: source/administration/batch-framework-job-expire.rst

.. _minio-batch-framework-expire-job:

=================

> Batch Expiration

Author: @krisis

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Batch expiration occurs immediately as part of the batch job, as compared to the :ref:`passive scanner-based application of expiration rules <minio-lifecycle-management-scanner>`.
Specifically, batch expiration does not yield to application I/O and may impact performance of regular read/write operations on the deployment.

Expiration Eligibility Determined at Batch-Run
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The batch expiration works per-bucket and runs once to completion.
The job determines expiration eligibility at the time the job runs, and does *not* rescan or recheck for new objects periodically.

You can instead re-run the batch job later to capture any new objects eligible for expiration under the job configuration.

.. _minio-batch-framework-expire-job-ref:

Expire Batch Job Reference
--------------------------

.. list-table::
   :widths: 25 75
   :width: 100%

   * - Field
     - Description

   * - ``expire``
     - *Required* 
       
       Top-level field for the expiration job type.

   * - ``apiVersion``
     - *Required*
        
       Set to ``v1``.

   * - ``bucket``
     - *Required*
       

>        Specify the name of the object in which the job runs.

Reviewer: We have one YAML file per bucket?
Or one expire batch job type section per bucket, I guess?

>        Specify the name of the object in which the job runs.

Reviewer 2: Batch jobs apply to one bucket. A batch job yaml must contain the bucket on which it operates.

   * - ``prefix``
     - *Optional*
      
       Specify the bucket prefix in which the job runs.

   * - ``rules``
     - *Required*
       

>        An array of one or more expiration rules to apply to objects in the specified ``bucket`` and ``prefix`` (if any).

Reviewer: Is this rule IDs? If so, might be useful to link to something that says how they can find those.
Or does the array have a rule configuration string?

   * - ``rules.[n].type``
     - *Required*

       Supports one of the following two values:

       - ``object`` - apply the expiration to objects and their versions

>        - ``deleted`` - apply the expiration to object Delete Markers

Reviewer 2: This rule applies to a delete marker (current version) and all its versions. I'm not sure if the current description conveys this. We don't want users assume that in the case of a delete marker current version, this rule expires only the (topmost) delete marker and leaves the other (noncurrent) versions as is.

Author: So it's more like

`object ` - deletes only objects and previous versions, ignoring delete markers
`deleted` - implies `object` plus delete markers

   * - ``rules.[n].name``
     - *Optional*

       Specify a match string to use for filtering objects.

       Supports glob-style wildcards (``*``, ``?``).

   * - ``rules.[n].olderThan``
     - *Optional*

       Specify the age of objects for filtering objects.
       The rule applies to only those objects older than the specified unit of time.

>        Supports values such as ``72h`` or ``3d`` for objects three days old.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       For example, ``72h`` or ``3d`` selects objects older than three days.
```

   * - ``rules.[n].createdBefore``
     - *Optional*

       Specify an ISO-8601 timestamp for filtering objects.

       The rule applies to only those objects created *before* the specified timestamp.

   * - ``rules.[n].tags``
     - *Optional*

       Specify an array of key-value pairs describing object tags to use for filtering objects.

>        The ``value`` key supports glob-style wildcards (``*``, ``?``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       The ``value`` entry supports glob-style wildcards (``*``, ``?``).
```

   * - ``rules.[n].metadata``
     - *Optional*

       Specify an array of key-value pairs describing object metadata to use for filtering objects.
       The ``value`` key supports glob-style wildcards (``*``, ``?``).

       For example, the following filters the rule to only objects with matching metadata:

       .. code-block:: yaml

          metadata:
            - key: content-type
              value: image/*

       This key is incompatible with ``rules.[n].type: deleted``.

   * - ``rules.[n].size``
     - *Optional*

       Specify the range of object sizes for filtering objects.

       - ``lessThan`` - matches objects with size less than the specified amount (e.g. ``MiB``, ``GiB``).
       - ``greaterThan`` - matches objects with size greater than the specified amount (e.g. ``MiB``, ``GiB``).

   * - ``rules.[n].purge.retainVersions``
     - *Optional*

       Specify the number of object versions to retain when applying expiration.

       Defaults to ``0`` for deleting all object versions (fastest).

   * - ``notify.endpoint``
     - *Optional*

       The predefined endpoint to send events for notifications.

   * - ``notify.token``
     - *Optional*

>        An optional :abbr:`JWT <JSON Web Token>` to access the ``notify.endpoint``.

Reviewer: abbr isn't rendering in the list.

```suggestion
       An optional JSON Web Token (JWT) to access the ``notify.endpoint``.
```

Author: Interesting!

To capture any new objects eligible for expiration, re-run the batch job.

Expiry Rules Check Latest Object Only
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The batch expiration job only checks the latest or "current" version of each object against each batch expiration rule.

.. _minio-batch-framework-expire-job-ref:

Expire Batch Job Reference
--------------------------

.. list-table::
   :widths: 25 75
   :width: 100%

   * - Field
     - Description

   * - ``expire``
     - *Required* 
       
       Top-level field for the expiration job type.

   * - ``apiVersion``
     - *Required*
        
       Set to ``v1``.

   * - ``bucket``
     - *Required*
       
       Specify the name of the bucket in which the job runs.

   * - ``prefix``
     - *Optional*
      
       Specify the bucket prefix in which the job runs.

   * - ``rules``
     - *Required*
       
       An array of one or more expiration rules to apply to objects in the specified ``bucket`` and ``prefix`` (if any).

   * - ``rules.[n].type``
     - *Required*

       Supports one of the following two values:

>        - ``object`` - apply the expiration to an object and its versions, *ignoring* deleted objects (``DeleteMarker`` is current version).

Reviewer 2: `object` rule type applies objects which don't have delete marker as their current version. i.e a regular object which will appear when its bucket is listed using ListObjects API.

>        - ``deleted`` - apply the expiration to an object and its versions, including deleted objects (``DeleteMarker`` is current version).

Reviewer 2: `deleted` rule type applies only to objects with delete marker as their current version. i.e an object that won't be visible when listed using ListObjects API.

       Supports one of the following two values:

>        - ``object`` - apply the expiration to an object and it's versions, *ignoring* deleted objects (``DeleteMarker`` is current version).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - ``object`` - apply the expiration to an object and its versions, *ignoring* deleted objects (``DeleteMarker`` is current version).
```

>        - ``deleted`` - apply the expiration to an object and it's versions, including deleted objects (``DeleteMarker`` is current version).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - ``deleted`` - apply the expiration to an object and its versions, including deleted objects (``DeleteMarker`` is current version).
```
